Food Safety Standards
=====================

FDA 21 CFR 174-178 - Code of Federal Regulations
------------------------------------------------
The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is a federal agency of the United States‘ Department of Health and Human Services. The §174.5 of Title 21 of the CFR contains general provisions applicable to indirect food additives. According to §174.6, substances used in food-contact articles (e.g., food-packaging or food-processing equipment) that migrate, or that may be expected to migrate, into food at negligible levels may be reviewed under §170.39 of this chapter. Adhesives and components of coating are regulated in Part 175. Subpart B contains adhesives and pressure-sensitive adhesives for use only as components of adhesives. Subpart C contains from §175.210 to §175.390 a list of substances for use as components of coatings.Subpart B of part 176 contains from §176.110 to §176.350 a list of substances for use only as components of paper and paperboard. Subpart B of part 177 contains from §177.1010 to §177.2000 a list of polymers for use as basic components of single and repeated use food contact surfaces. Subpart C from part 177 contains from §177.2210 to §177.2910 a list of polymers for use only as components of articles intended for repeated use. The part 178 of Title 21 of the CFR subpart B contains hydrogen peroxide solution and sanitizing solutions utilised to control the growth of microorganisms. Subpart C contains antioxidants and stabilisers. Subpart D contains from §178.3010 to §178.3950 a list of certain adjuvants and production aids, e.g. anticorrosive agents according to §178.3125.


EN 1672-2:2009-07 - Food processing Hygiene requirements
-----------------------------------------------------------
The DIN EN 1672-2:2009-07 describes the general requirements regarding hygiene risks that emerge during the utilisation of food machines and throughout the manufacturing process. It covers the basic principles of hazards for food that can be evoked by the machines. The aim is that no hazards are developed for customers of the food. The terms of food hygiene, food sector, pray sector and no-spray sector are defined in the standard. The DIN EN 1672-2:2009-07 provides a list of significant hazards and describes an approach for the implementation of a hygiene-related risk analysis of food machines (including a schematic depiction of the procedure). The standard shows the requirements of construction materials and the (constructive) design. It describes the testing of compliance with the requirements referring to a comprehensive list and describes the minimum of requirements for the content of the user information. The DIN EN 1672-2:2009-07 gives examples for hygiene risks and recommends acceptable solutions in terms of design and/or installation of food machines.

EN ISO 22000:2018-09 - Food safety management systems
-----------------------------------------------------
The DIN EN ISO 22000:2018-09 is a global standard management system for food safety. The model of the process-oriented approach of the ISO 9001:2000 is integrated as well as the demands of the HACCP-standards. All information, obtained through a systematic hazard analysis, has to be supplied by the companies for any upstream, downstream and overall organizations. The ISO 22000 summarizes the basics of the system of the hazard analysis and the critical control points (Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points – HACCP). All reasonably expected hazards have to be identified, assessed and controlled. It must be determined, which hazards have to be controlled within the own company and which have to be controlled by other companies inside the production chain until the customer. The prerequisite program is about the postulates and actions that are necessary for the manufacturing process as well as the treatment and the provisioning of safe food. The postulates relate to the infrastructure and the work environment. In the hazard analysis the company ascertains which strategy is to be used to ensure the hazard analysis by a combination of the prerequisite program and the HACCP-plan. The standard refers to the suppliers that supply the chain of the food production. Particular emphasis of the ISO 22000 is the documentation and the verification that all necessary measures for food safety are scheduled before the implementation, correctly controlled while the implementation and subsequently completely assessed with regards to the efficacy.